what's the best way to get acquainted
with a new vehicle two words
road trip
if there were an evolutionary chart
marking the toyota rav-4 is
transformation over time on the left
you'd have a humble body cladding
covered SUV type thing while on the
right we'd have this fourth generation
Toyota rav4 it's the most civilized and
upstanding iteration of Toyotas compact
crossover yet
what makes this rav4 so civilized well
let's start back notice anything
yes the crude aerodynamically
inefficient trunk mounted spare has been
retired so to speak and relocated
underneath the cargo area also the hatch
flips up instead of swinging out towards
the curb doing so with height adjustable
power action and the swanky limited trim
as long as we're discussing practicality
the 38.4 cubic foot space behind the
second row happily accommodates lots of
video gear throw away a tripod or two
and the rear seat passengers can lean
their seats back interestingly rear
legroom has actually decreased versus
the third gen rav4 but there's still
plenty of space coupled with a flat
floor and a high roof even the center
position is adult worthy
transforming to cargo mode requires
three quick steps one ditch whoever's
and back to fold the headrest and three
use the single action poles to lower the
rear seats it's also worth noting that
the mostly useless third row of the
previous rav4 has been discontinued I'm
sure you can find other ways to torture
your friends
the cabin has lots of room for stuff
including room for improvement in an era
of rapidly escalating interior quality
the rav4 lacks a soft - in fact hard
plastics comprised the lion's share of
interior panels saved for the armrest
and this strip across the instrument
panel a hodgepodge of material themes
also feels a little disjointed sorry
plastic no one's going to think you're
actually carbon fiber all that said the
controls are typical Toyota with
unambiguous operation and big easily
read fonts
propelled down the road
the rav4s road manners are less fun than
the Ford Escape or Mazda cx-5 it might
be cause for concern if you weren't
talking about compact crossovers for the
segment the Toyotas predictably direct
steering works well
reassuring average drivers and corners
at the same time the ride is more than
acceptable for long Johnson to parts
unknown the Honda CRV does retain an
edge in suspension compliance overall we
appreciate the rav4s middle of the road
ride and handling but we do wish for
more power the 2.5 liter 4-cylinder
accelerates with reasonable haste around
town but on the highway we long for more
grunt specifically passing uphill sure
makes us miss the dearly departed v6
handling shifting duties is a six-speed
automatic transmission that like a
mechanical life coach uses well spaced
ratios to harness the engine's potential
go for cylinder
as is the modern fashion sport and eco
modes are both offered activating sport
mode reminds us that simply increasing
steering efforts can't magically make a
car sporty crisper throttle response is
nice but instead of reaching all the way
down to press the sport button will
probably just push the throttle pedal
harder on the other end of the spectrum
we have Eco mode sure you could let eco
modes lethargic mapping dictate your
speed but anyone interested in traveling
that slow should probably stick to penny
farthings for low traction travel
perhaps to a frozen lake somewhere
the optional all-wheel drive system can
transfer up to 50% of the engine's power
to the rear wheels when the front slip
press the lock button and the 50/50
front rear power split remains fixed at
speeds up to 25 miles per hour with the
previously mentioned sport mode
activated no wheel drive system doesn't
need a little trick apportioning a small
amount of torque automatically to the
rear wheels and turns to help minimize
the likelihood of understeer
a little more than $24,000 puts you into
a base rav4 equipped with a 6.1 inch
touchscreen Bluetooth eight airbags
including a driver knee airbag and a
front passenger seat cushion airbag and
even though outward sight lines are just
fine a backup camera tossin blind spot
monitoring a navigation equipped Intune
infotainment system and a JBL premium
audio system and a loaded
all-wheel-drive limited trim peaks at
around 31 thousand dollars depending on
equipment levels Ford Escape Honda CRV
and Nissan Rogue sit roughly in line
with the rav4 price-wise while bargain
shoppers might also consider the Kia
Sportage or Mazda cx-5
so having driven long distances to
spectacular locations are we blown away
by the rav4 no not really but that's not
its job if you want to be blown away go
drive a Ferrari if you want a capable
reliable and roomy five-passenger
crossover with good resale values and
you should consider the Toyota rav4 even
if the journey isn't mind-blowing with
the right destinations
you'll be worthwhile
you